---
layout: post
title: "Dominion"
categories: fiction
---

It was July, maybe August of the fifty&ndash;ninth year since the Burning Time, no one really knew anymore. The sun was deep beneath the horizon once known as Colorado. Only a howling wind dared to dance in the small city with no name nestled at the foot of a mountain. It glided effortlessly over the ten inches of untouched snow that covered the city. In the distance a bell was ringing. It was the all's *well* signal.

Wade Brennan heard the bell and smiled, it was the first good sign he'd had all day. He peered into the street from the darkness of an alley, paying special attention to the building adjacent to him. Ancient street lamps provided dim illumination, but he could see well enough. He checked his watch; a bright green display read 6:21 PM. He pushed an oversized button on the face and the read&ndash;out changed.

&ndash;37 &deg;C

He pulled his sleeve down to hide the glow, listened to the keening eddies, and calculated another twenty degrees for the wind&ndash;chill. Returning to the shadows, he moved stealthily through the blackness, sure of his target. His breathing was strong and steady, though the icy air was hard to breathe. With each breath the moisture in his lungs would partially freeze, it hurt like hell, but he pressed on. He was trained to ignore pain, and he did it well.

There was an old dumpster hidden in the darkness, he moved towards it with purpose. Behind was a large metallic briefcase; Wade knelt down, but it was just out of reach. He lay down to try to gain the missing inch, with his outstretched hand he touched it. A little further&hellip; almost enough. If only he could&mdash;

From the darkness beyond his fingertips a growl came, and a pair of yellow eyes.

"Oh shit." Wade grunted, pulling his arm back.

He tried to get to his feet but the creature was too fast. He managed half a roll before the beast sprung from its rest and onto his back, digging its claws through Wade's thick coat. It was a wild dog, the size of a mountain goat. Its enormous size and vicious nature did not surprise Wade. He had seen these creatures plenty of times &mdash; from a distance. He had just never seen one in a city, at least not a live one; that caught him off guard. They were called *Morfran*'s, though the origin of that name he didn't know. From what he understood, or more specifically was told by the government, the *Morfran's* had been virtually exterminated a quarter of a century ago.

It was more likely &mdash; Wade's inner voice chirped &mdash; that *Morfran's* still out&ndash;numbered humans. He was too young to remember *the Reclamation*; it ended before his third birthday. But he had heard enough of his father's stories to consider himself an expert on the period. "That was when we took the Earth back," his father would say, "those were the years that we hunted them." A curious young Wade once asked about the time before *the Reclamation*, but the only response he got was: "Those were the years that they hunted us."

The legacy of man was short, *the Reclamation* was about as far back as anyone could, or wanted to remember. But some, mostly the old, talked of a *before time*, when the sky was blue and a green carpet ran under the feet of every man, woman, and child. When the wild dogs weren't wild, and they walked beside man &mdash; his best friend. Wade had never really believed it. He believed in the Burning Time, and the aftermath that it brought. He believed that the skies turned black and a blanket of winter covered the Earth. He believed it because fifty&ndash;nine years later, he still lived in its wake; a midday sky which at its brightest was a pale grey. And snow &ndash; endless volumes of snow, dirty and merciless, forever hiding the ground beneath.

It was said the Burning Time killed millions, and that the winter that followed killed even more. Hundreds of species wiped out, more than Wade would ever know. Plants, animals, and insects &mdash; all decimated. Except the *Morfran's*, they were different somehow. Something in the aftermath had changed them, made them hardier. They flourished in the endless winter, hunting in packs, like wolves, or at least as Wade imagined a wolf would hunt.

Records dating back to the beginning were scarce at best, but Wade didn't need records to know the wild dogs weren't normal. They were mutations, aberrations of nature, and they were smart. Wade didn't know much about science, but he knew anything that terrible had to have been man's doing. These creatures were pure evil; nature didn't create evil.

Nature, however, never completely relinquishes its hold. It always demands a trade off when meddling is done. For the gifts of intelligence and cunning, photo-sensitivity was the *Morfran's* penance. And as they evolved along their engineered path, growing smarter with each new generation, the condition worsened, until even the dimmest light was unbearable to them. In the New World, however, this disability was not a crippling one. Since the Burning Time sunlight came mostly in muted forms, not able to pierce the canopy of dust hanging between the sky and man.

In the winter of the fourth year that followed the Burning Time, Wade's father was born. His name was Jim; he lived thirty&ndash;seven years, a relatively long life in the New World. Nearly two decades after his death the world was different &mdash; but not much. People still died from frostbite and pneumonia, but even more died from starvation. In the last ten years a number of government greenhouses had sprung up throughout the country, but they were woefully inadequate to the task of feeding everyone.

Jim Brennan's stories of the beginning were haunting, even if mostly second hand. A winter that appeared overnight, and never left; crops dead in the first week, animals succumbing to the same fate. People burned and scarred by some invisible fire, the survivors huddled together in flimsy shelters, unprepared for the hardships ahead and defenseless against the new reality that they were no longer the top of the food chain. How his family had survived, how anyone had survived, he didn't know. But some did survive, and had children, and those children had children. The human race continued despite it all.

Despite even the *Morfran's*. For a dozen years their roving packs dominated the continent; hunting humans like sick antelopes, separating the weak and feeble from the herd. Man was on the verge of extinction, scared and helpless in a world of harsh elements and strange beasts.

As the *Morfran* population grew, each generation larger and more ferocious than the last, the hope of the human race dwindled proportionately. Like the Neanderthals eighty&ndash;five thousand years before, man would need to get smart in order to survive. It wasn't until one man; a drifter named Victor Grimm brought hope back to humanity. He didn't do it through prayer or community service; he did it the old fashioned way &mdash; by killing. Specifically by killing nearly half a dozen *Morfran's* single&ndash;handedly.

It was a miserably cold night, twenty years after the Burning Time. Grimm had stumbled upon Gulliver's Haven, a small colony on the edge of old California. That alone would have been worth an anecdote. People didn't travel much anymore, and *no one* traveled at night. The days were hard and short, and the nights were worse; that's when the wild dogs came out. Grimm reached the gates of the Haven well after sunset, only to find them closed. Exhausted and shivering badly, he pounded on the heavy gates, but they would not give, and the people within did not answer when he cried.

Then he stopped.

The sound of crunching snow, too loud to be a man, or men, demanded his attention. Five pairs of yellow eyes appeared in the distance. Grimm tried a final plea as he turned back to the doors. What happened next became the legend. Jim passed it on to Wade, and Wade would likely do the same to his son, if he believed it. The story, as it was told to Wade, went something like this: Alone against a quintuplet of hungry *Morfran's*, when most men would have made peace with whatever God they believed in and prepared to die, Victor Grimm deftly killed two wild dogs with his dagger, before the blade snapped in the perforated eye cavity of a third. He broke the neck of the fourth *Morfran* with his bare hands. Nearly twisting off its head after the monster tore the pinkie finger from Grimm's left hand.

Then there was one.

Grimm spun around, blood dripping from his nine naked fingers, and gushing from the stump of the tenth. Their eyes met, he let out a terrible scream and spread his arms wide, inviting the beast in. The *Morfran* leapt for him, knocking him to the ground. They rolled around in the trampled, bloody snow, entangled in each other. The residents of Gulliver's Haven looked on from the safety of their walled community with *sudden* interest. They gawked at the litter of corpses scattered around the dueling foes.

The animal drove its hungry teeth at Grimm's head; he made several sharp, jerking motions to avoid the canines snapping jaw. Grimm grabbed the dog's front legs to keep its claws from gouging his face. Then he thrust them apart, as hard and as far as he could. The wild dog cried as the bones of its own ribcage pierced its heart. As if inspired by or possessed by the dog's savage spirit, Grimm lunged at its throat. He bit into the hard meaty flesh, tearing out its jugular and a mouthful of coarse fur. A wave of blood fell from its neck, crashing onto Victor Grimm's brown face. He pushed the beast off him with his remaining strength. The *Morfran* shook and quivered; it was unlike anything that had been seen before. It suffered for what seemed an eternity, and then just died. Grimm struggled to his feet, and then was static; his gaze fixed on the dead animal. He didn't move until surrounded by the weak and the wretched, come out from their hiding places to see if what their eyes had told them was true.

It didn't take long for word of Grimm's unbelievable deed to spread to all the colonies. The real miracle was not in the telling of his exploit, but the hope that went along with it. It immortalized both his actions and indeed the man himself. Like Jesus Christ two thousand years before, he was their savior. At the age of twenty&ndash;four Victor Grimm became a hero, a symbol for the courage of all mankind. Wade was now twenty&ndash;nine, or thirty, he wasn't exactly sure.

In the fall of the twentieth year, under a single leader, the second wave of human dominion spread fervently across the planet. It was *the Reclamation*, the first crusade of the New World, and it lasted thirteen years. The rush to serve, fight, and die under Victor Grimm was called the Messiah Effect. In less than nine years the estimated wild dog population had dropped from two hundred million to just over sixty&ndash;seven million across North America. During the second half of the *Morfran* campaign Victor Grimm died mysteriously, and forced enlistment of all able bodied men replaced the patriotic voluntarism of the past.

Estimated wild dog population or E.W.D.P. as it was commonly referred, was based on cooperative information sharing, something that hadn't happened in almost half a century. Today the E.W.D.P. was somewhere in the neighbourhood of ninety&ndash;five thousand.

History.

Wade hated history; he had little use for it, especially now. A lot about Victor Grimm and the war was legend, and as far as Wade was concerned, probably bullshit. Wade knew the real horror of war; he had seen it every day in Jim's eyes. He was a solider in *the Reclamation*, spent nearly eight years fighting; he lost three toes and a significant piece of his ass. The tale of how he lost those toes was a favorite for Jim; the story of the missing butt cheek was less popular.

Whenever confronted by these glorious tales of old, Wade would quickly point out that the wild dogs were a lot smaller in those days. Only sheer numbers enabled their domination. Since then countless larger and smarter generations had spawned. In Wade's opinion, the ninety&ndash;five thousand that currently roamed the foothills and forests &mdash; and apparently the cities &mdash; were more dangerous than the two hundred million that had preceded them.

One day less than a month before Wade's eleventh birthday, Jim came down with a strain of influenza. He lasted three weeks, and every day that he lay in bed he asked to see his boy, but Wade had become so sick of hearing *the story* he refused to visit him. Jim died in the middle of the night, delirious from fever, still calling Wade's name. Wade spent the next eighteen years wishing he could hear that story just one more time.

---

He shook his head and broke himself free from memory lane. Stories of a couple hundred million wild dogs slaughtered in an ancient war, and a boat&ndash;full of tearful memories couldn't help him kill the hairy ghoul that was clawing its way through his parka.

Wade rolled over again, pinning the dog under him. With one swift move he pulled a knife from his ankle holster and drove it into the animal's side. As the blade pierced its tough hide, the *Morfran* squealed. Its shrill cry was so loud it rung in Wade's ears. He lost a moment just reacting to it. And before he regained his senses and could think about pulling free from the claws embedded in his coat, the wild dog sunk its long fangs into his neck, the muscles of its massive jaw locking in place. A thunderous scream echoed through the alley, amplified by the acoustic qualities of the surrounding brick. For an instant Wade pitied the poor animal capable of making such a desperate noise, until he realized it was him. From that desperation he mustered the strength to pull out the bloody knife and drive it into the beast again, and again, until he felt the claws retract.

All of Wade's senses were going wild; his adrenaline levels had increased tenfold in the last two minutes. His heart was almost in arrest. He tore himself free from the *Morfran's* hold, leaving a sanguineous chunk of his neck behind in its hungry mouth. The morsel was swallowed with ravenous greed. Blood erupted from the gaping wound. He tried to ignore the pain, he had to, or he was surely dead. He wanted to stay down, to sleep. Everything inside him begged to give up, but he wasn't a quitter, even now.

His mind was cloudy and confused. A flood of intense emotions overwhelmed his usual clarity. He tried to think, but he couldn't. For the first time his instincts hadn't taken over. He just lay there motionless, hating himself. Panic, fear, and rage bombarded him like hail. He pushed them aside as best he could; he knew there wasn't time to feel anything. He needed to get up and fight &mdash; or die. For several seconds (though it seemed longer from Wade's perspective) both he and the *Morfran* lay still in the deep snow; blood slowly permeating the hard drift like dye through a snow cone.

Just then a noise broke the silence between them. It was a groan; the kind old men make when they push themselves out of chairs. *The beast was moving!* Wade felt a spike of fear cascade up and down his spine. It scared him so much he was ashamed. That shame got him moving. Later when he retold the story to his friends he would change that part. Wade lifted the long serrated knife, still in his right hand, out of the bloodstained snow and plunged it into the creature's heart. He pulled it out and did it again, and again, and so many times a broad hole was carved in its wide chest. The *Morfran* screeched madly all the while; blood and clumps of tissue bubbled out of the crevice.

Wade finally stopped. He brought the knife to eye level, red syrup oozed from the tip of the blade to the midpoint of his forearm. It was congealing quickly in the frigid temperature. Wade fell back, exhausted, and still bleeding profusely from the neck. His breathing was erratic and heavy, and his overcoat was badly shredded. He tore a long strip from the tattered ends and wrapped it around his neck. His distorted face betrayed the pain he felt as he knotted the makeshift bandage close to the wound. Once the bleeding was under control his head began to clear, memories of his mission came flooding back. Wade looked around quickly, and grimaced; he put a hand over the soggy bandage. Did anyone see what happened? Did anyone hear? Did *he* hear?

Everything was silent &mdash; except for Wade's pounding heart, and the careening wind. He scuttled on all fours to the edge of the alley and poked his head from the dark seclusion. He glanced up and down the street. It was empty. He took particular notice of the front door of the building across the street. No one was in sight.

*Had he slipped in during the fight?* No, he couldn't have. All of Wade's training, preparation, sacrifice, and sweat, it couldn't be for nothing. He sat back against the cold brick wall, sinking slowly into a cradle of snow. He needed to catch his breath; he had never been so out of breath. This was all wrong; it was supposed to be simple. Get in, do the job, and get out. No such thing as simple, he thought.

Wade reached into a side pocket and pulled out a picture of his wife Celeste and his young son Darren. It was torn and creased from the fight; he tried to smooth it against his pant leg. He held the ripped edges together to make the picture whole, and admired it lovingly. Celeste's long, mahogany hair was draped over her shoulder. Darren sat in her lap, fidgeting. He had a handful of her hair tightly in his grip. It was taken eight months ago, the day before he joined *the Agency;* Darren was only five weeks old at the time. Celeste wasn't smiling in the picture; her dark eyes glistened with sadness, betraying her true feelings. On that day Wade promised Celeste he would return with enough money to *"leave this awful place and find our own piece of paradise."* He took the picture to remind him of what he was leaving behind, and why he had to return. Celeste begged him not to go, and she cried. But he still left; sure both that he was doing the right thing, and that she would understand when he came back.

Blood from his glove had gotten onto the picture; he wiped it carefully on his jacket before returning it to his pocket.

The package! Wade had almost forgotten. He let out a loud groan (louder than he wanted to) and forced himself to his feet. He starred angrily at the large carnivore as he passed by. The briefcase was easy to reach now. When the *Morfran* attacked him it must have nudged it forward. He pulled the case from the crevice and laid it on the snow. It had a three&ndash;digit combination lock that Wade's clumsy gloved fingers could not operate. He ripped off one of his gloves and went straight to work. He knew there was no time to waste; the wind&ndash;chill was too great to remain exposed for long. As the third digit was lined up the latch unlocked and the lid lifted slightly. Wade pulled his glove back on, threw the lid up violently, and made for the contents. The briefcase was unlined, except for a crude plastic moulding meant to house the large handgun embedded within. He pulled the gun from its rest and quickly installed the ammunition cartridge and silencer, all the while admiring the blue steel construction.

Things were finally back on track, he hoped.

In the distance Wade heard the faint sound of crunching snow, barely detectable through the gusting swirls. It was the sound of footsteps, the sound he was waiting for, and they were getting louder. Wade rushed to the edge, peering carefully out. Through the ballet of blowing snow the faint silhouette of a man grew slowly larger.

*It was him!* It had to be. No one else would be crazy enough to walk the streets alone at this hour, he told himself. He almost believed it too. Impatiently he waited as the lone figure strode closer, his pace slow and uneven.

The seconds passed, the shadow became a man. Wade noticed a cane in his left hand. The man stopped in front of the old apartment building Wade had been eyeing earlier. The figure looked around, as if expecting something. Wade ducked back into the alley, narrowly avoiding detection. He let out a quiet sigh, and cautiously poked an eye out into the street. The man was climbing the stairs, heading for the door. This was Wade's chance, and he knew it. The man fumbled in the pocket of his bulky coat. Wade took his cue and leapt from the alley; the sound of rustling keys concealing his approach.

"Good evening, Doctor Meyer." Wade said as he raised his gun, his cocky tone covering the anxiety he felt.

The man did not turn around, or acknowledge his name. He only lifted his head, and leaned heavily on his cane. "I had almost given up hope of ever seeing one of *you* again," he responded, his back to Wade, "it's been almost five years."

"The Agency has been busy with other matters," Wade thought for a moment, "and to your credit you're not an easy man to track." He swallowed hard. There was a cut on his forehead he hadn't noticed until now; blood was running into his eye. He wiped it with his free hand. "But don't worry, we haven't forgotten about you." His voice was unsteady, and his finger quivered on the trigger.

The shadow man turned slowly around; their eyes met. For an instant Wade had a rush of guilt. He had seen pictures of the renegade Edmund Meyer, but they were very dated, he realized. This was not the same young rebel he had been trained to kill. This man was old, frail; his skin was wrinkled and worn. His hands shook, but Wade suspected not from fear or cold.

"Is it really possible that they're still afraid of me, after all this time? It must be true I suppose, they did send you halfway across the country to kill me." He mused, a wry smile nearly forming on his face.

"Enough Doctor, don't make this more difficult than it has to be." Wade cocked back the hammer; he looked clumsy and unsure. "I'm not in the mood."

Edmund looked closely at Wade; he noticed the bedraggled clothing and the second rate first aid on his bloody neck. "Please, call me Edmund." He paused for a breath. "If you've really come here to kill me, I hardly think we need to stand on formality."

Wade felt very weak.

Maybe it was the sound of the doctor's voice, or perhaps it was the extreme blood loss. Whatever it was, it was taking its toll. Wade lurched back but quickly recovered, keeping the gun trained on his target.

Wade was shaking badly; he couldn't seem to stop.

"Young man, your bleeding, and hardly in the condition to kill anyone." He moved towards Wade. "Let me treat your wounds," he offered, sounding sincerely sympathetic, "I have some things inside that could&mdash;"

"No!" Wade stumbled back, his arm bobbled madly about, and his grip on the gun waned. "Stop stalling, just stand still and I promise it will be painless." He was losing consciousness, and his vision was failing; he could barely see Edmund, three feet in front of him.

Edmund was sly, he knew Wade's faculties were betraying him; a few more minutes were all he needed. "Kind words indeed, but you can hardly guarantee that." He could see Wade was fading rapidly. "I doubt if you've had any feedback from former clients to corroborate this claim." He inched closer to Wade. "Let me help you, you're shaking like a leaf." Closer still he moved.

"No! Stay back!" Wade moved back again, but his coordination was lost, he tripped over his own feet, falling flat on his back; the wind knocked abruptly from him.

The gun was ejected from his grip, landing less than a foot away. But in Wade's condition it might as well have been a mile. He tried desperately to stand, but his muscles floundered. Snow stuck to his frame as he flopped helplessly around.

For fifteen years I've been hunted like an animal." Edmund's sympathetic tone disappeared, replaced by contempt. "They keep sending people like you to carry out *their* death sentence." He tried to kneel down beside Wade, but his knees would have no part of it. Instead, he grabbed the gun and pulled himself straight with the help of his cane. "I'm so tired of being hunted!" A surge of emotion coloured his otherwise grey face. He pointed the gun at Wade's head.

"They'll never stop." Wade mumbled, barely discernible. He was hanging desperately to the last strings of consciousness, and life.

Edmund paused, taking a moment to fully digest the meaning of Wade's cryptic warning. He twisted his cane in the snow, anchoring himself to it. "You're right&hellip; they will never stop."

The gun made a muffled squeak as Edmund squeezed the trigger. Wade twitched; his head recoiled as the bullet pierced the thin flesh of his forehead, and cracked as it broke through the bone of his skull.

Edmund adjusted his scarf and turned back towards the icy staircase. He cautiously climbed them one at a time, his cane shaking under the swaying guidance of his contorted hand. Upon reaching the top he unlocked the door and entered without a word, closing the door behind him.

Wade's body lay still on the frozen sidewalk, blowing snow crawling over every part, covering it like maggots on rotting flesh.