---
layout: post
title: "Narrow Thinking"
categories: opinion
---

Viewing gender identity as a spetrum, in retrospec, seems a no brainer. It allows for a near endless variety of expression and exposition. So with all this space open to explore, why do we need to opt out? Or maybe the better question is, can we?

Gender identity is a spectrum, but gender itself is binary, no matter how much you may wish otherwise. That being said, the labels of male and female only matter if you obsese over genitailia. Being male doesn't mean anything in regards to how you express yourself, or at least it shouldn't. If your name is Bob and you have a (trigger warning) penis, it doesn't mean you have to wear khaki pants and a golf shirt. Nor does it mean you need to sport a *high and tight* haircut. Likewise, if your name is Karen and you have a vagina, your not obligated to wear dresses, high heels, and *spankx*.[^1]

Explore the spectrum, dress how you want, act how you want, be **who you are**. None of that makes you non-binary.

The declearation of non-binary actually perpetuates the old steroetypes of men and women. It implies we have no agency inside our binary gender boxes. our choices amount to Bugs Bunny, and Bugs Bunny in a dress.

I know what you're thinking, what about transgender people? If you've gone all the way, then you are what you paid for. If you're still transitioning, then I would say you're *between genders*, a small, but important distinction from non-binary.

The point is regardless of whether you're technically male or female, you can invent your own definition of what that means.

Gender may be binary, but your expression is limitless.

[^1]: Full acknowlegdment that spankx are a marvelous invention.